Main modules of the Old Holland Road 400 Rolling Launch Control and Flight Analysis System (FAS):

kdb+ database/server (FASServer32bitInit.q or FASServer64bitInit.q)
q server process that acts as the database (RDB and HDB). Historical and real-time flight telemetry and Rolling Launch Control data is streamed and retrievable from this process. Hosted at renxiang.cloud.
Interfaces using q IPC, ODBC and websockets. (Requires authentication).
Kx Developer is active if 64bit server is in use.
Requires 32bit or 64bit KDB (requires cloud permission)
Tableau (live data refresh) and TIBCO Spotfire Analyst (manual data refresh) have been successfully connected to this server instance using ODBC.
See screenshots in Git Repository for useful dashboard views.

- To run:
#32 bit version
rm nohupServer.out; nohup ~/q/l32/q FASServer32bitInit.q > nohupServer.out & tail -f nohupServer.out
#64 bit version
rm nohupServer.out; nohup q FASServerInit.q > nohupServer.out & tail -f nohupServer.out

Launch Control ML Model Trainer (FASMLTrainingClientInit.q)
q client process that reads flight data from the kdb server to train ML pipeline implemented in it.
The ML pipeline consists of 3 cascaded models. 
2 regression models that predict GPS speed and battery voltage respectively are first trained.
The physics of the UAV and its battery limitations are effectively modelled by the regression models after training.
By crossfeeding the historical flight data between the two trained regression models, with an artificial time increment of 1 time period (0.2s, based on GPS speed refresh rate) between each crossfeed step, an expanding combination of possible future flight data is synthesized.
The synthesized data is arranged in a B-tree and the top 20% throttle sequences, based on final GPS speed, is selected using q-sql.
These throttle sequences are then transformed into a sliding window table in kdb and used to train the LSTM model.
The trained LSTM recognises the latest throttle input received by the UAV and generates the optimal throttle pattern for the next 2 seconds to maintain the highest GPS speed without overexerting the limits of the battery.
This trained LSTM model is used in the deployment of the Rolling Launch Control feature of the UAV.
When the LSTM model is done training, the script will save and transfer the trained model to the kdb server for storage over SFTP. 

- To run:
rlwrap q FASMLTrainingClientInit.q

Telemetry Stream Client (FASMavlinkInput.py)
Python client that acts as the streaming telemetry interface between the UAV and kdb server.
It reads Mavlink telemetry data from the USB UAV telemetry radio attached to the local machine and streams it to the server using q IPC.
Requires qPython. Recommended to run on local machine with 3DR telemetry radio attached.

- To run:
python FASMavlinkInput.py

Launch Control ML Model Deployment (FASLaunchControlClientInit.q)
q client process that reads the latest 2 mins of flight data from the kdb server and generates Rolling Launch Control output for the UAV. The generated throttle sequence is streamed back to the server.
Under the hood, a trained keras LSTM model generates the output from the latest throttle data.
Requires 64 bit KDB and embedPy. Recommended to run on local machine with Tensorflow/CUDA.

- To run:
rm nohupLaunchControlClient.out; nohup q FASServerInit.q > nohupLaunchControlClient.out & tail -f nohupLaunchControlClient.out

Launch Control Hardware Subscriber (FASLaunchControlOutput.py)
Python client that subscribes to throttle sequence generated by the launch control client on kdb server.
Requires 64 bit KDB and embedpy running on local machine, with USB interface to UAV control link.

- To run:
python FASLaunchControlOutput.py

Recorded Telemetry Playback Client (FASLogPlayback.q)
q client process that streams historical UAV flight logs and training data logs into the server to test client applications that require streaming telemetry input. Simulates Mavlink telemetry sent back by the UAV.
IPC functions are defined on kdb server side.
Requires 32 or 64 bit kdb.

- To run:
rlwrap q FASLogPlayback.q